[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> There's a class of
plant-based compounds called
polyphenols.
And these are basically
the colored compounds
that are present in anything
that's brightly colored.
And you'll find a
reasonable amount of them
in leafy green vegetables, and
fruit, and things like that,
but frankly, not that many.
Where they explode is
in herbs and spices.
So the more herbs
and spices you use,
things like rosemary,
oregano, thyme, fennel--
all those have masses
of these things.
The average Westerner
gets about 1 gram
of these powerful plant-based
compounds in their food
if they're eating
just a regular diet
and they're drinking coffee.
Coffee is the number one source
of polyphenols in the West.
And from an anti-aging
perspective,
my goal is to get
4 or 5 grams a day.
So I drink my coffee, I eat
chocolate, I drink green tea,
and I eat my vegetables.
I put extra herbs on them.
Because the evidence
is that your cells can
work better when they have
enough of these plant-based
compounds.
So I like these
anti-aging compounds
and performance-enhancing
compounds.
Different polyphenols
do different things.
And there's this amazing
synergistic dance
between what Mother Nature
makes and what humans want.
One of the things that
makes us happy as humans
is to perform better.
So no one likes to say, I cooked
dinner, and I did a crappy job.
Even if it wasn't necessary
you did a good job,
you just want to.
It feels good to do
something with excellence.
So one of the things
that we're attracted to
are things that enhance
human performance.
And you could say
that's not true.
I'm like, sorry, fire
enhances human performance.
A million years
ago or something,
there were two cavemen.
And one of them said, I'm
going to use fire to stay warm.
And the other one
said that's cheating.
Right?
Well, the guy who said fire is
going to keep me warm-- he's
our ancestor.
The other guy didn't make it.
So we have a built-in,
innate desire to do that.
And for thousands of years,
probably tens of thousands
of years, really, we have been
using plant-based compounds
in a way that is based
on direct observation
from people who use them
over multiple generations.
And the Mother
Nature smart drugs
that are just endemic
out there that people
don't think of as smart drugs--
number one, it's caffeine.
Coffee, tea, and
chocolate-- global wars
have been fought
over these compounds.
They have fueled human progress.
The Enlightenment in Europe
was based on the explosion
of coffee houses.
Civilization is tied
to these things.
You go back 5,000
years in China.
There was tea.
And they tracked the different
grades and what they did.
And we knew this.
You go back in India--
tea.
Go back in Africa--
coffee.
So this stuff has been around.
What's the other massive,
most studied smart drug
that Mother Nature makes
that no one ever heard of?
It's actually tobacco.
Smoking is terrible for you.
Everyone knows smoking
is bad for you.
Everyone knows it
makes you smell bad.
It makes you look old and all
the bad stuff-- cancer, teeth
falling out, whatever else.
However, when people use
nicotine, they type 15% faster.
Their working memory improves.
They perform better.
And we are so wired
to perform better
that we are willing to give up
the second half of our quality
of life to feel good right now.
And emerging studies
in the last 30 years
from an academic
researcher at Vanderbilt--
I call him Dr. Nicotine
when I interviewed them
on Bulletproof Radio.
He's like, hey, here's
the first paper that
shows from the 1980s that
low doses of oral nicotine
and not smoked, but just
the purified nicotine
reverse Alzheimer's disease.
If you look at what's
likely to kill you today
if you're in the West,
it's diabetes, cancer,
heart disease, and
Alzheimer's disease.
And I just wrote
an anti-aging book
looking at these four things.
What if a very tiny amount
of nicotine on a daily basis
not only made you
smarter, faster--
I mean, your cells
worked better,
but also reduced your
risk of Alzheimer's.
Well, I do not sell nicotine.
If I did, I wouldn't
be allowed to say that.
But what I can say is
there is evidence of this.
There's also evidence that large
doses of nicotine or smoking
are just bad, right?
The dose is-- or
what does it say?
The dose is in the poison,
the poison is in the dose.
Something like that.
So we can look at these
plant-based compounds
and just understand
we want to feel good.
We want to perform
well, and Mother Nature
will help us do it.
And plant-based compounds
are a big part of it.
The secret that
no one had told me
was that if you want to do
the personal development work,
if your body, your hardware,
isn't working very well,
it's going to be really
difficult, if not impossible.
So get your body
working well enough
to make enough energy to
create personal change,
and that has been
transformative for me.
Indigenous cultures
everywhere knew
that there were two things
that worked for parasites,
for diarrhea, and for GI upset.
One of them is
activated charcoal.
The other one is
certain kinds of clay.
And you've probably heard
bentonite clay is another one.
These are toxin binders,
broad spectrum ones.
So when I was in
Nepal and Tibet,
you could go to
little street vendors.
And they have these little bags
or bottles of charcoal tablets,
because there's
a lot of Giardia.
There's a lot of
parasitic things
where people get diarrhea.
And they'd say, oh, charcoal
is what you do if you have
any upset for your stomach.
So if my kids have
an upset stomach,
do they get charcoal first?
Yes, they do.
Does it usually work to
make you feel better?
Yeah.
If I eat something and
I feel weird afterwards,
I take charcoal,
and I feel better.
It's pretty amazing,
but this has been around
for thousands of years.
It's used in Ayurveda.
It's used in Traditional
Chinese Medicine.
The indigenous people in
the United States used it.
And you just go
around the world.
Oh, we all knew about charcoal.
And charcoal is amazing.
Because about a
teaspoon of charcoal,
depending on how it's made,
can have the surface area
of a football field
and/or a soccer field,
depending on what
country you're from.
Same difference.
And what's going on there?
Well, it's basically
these crinkly carbons.
So the little nooks and
valleys and canyons in it
have this huge amount of
ability to bind to toxins.
And it has a strong
negative electrical charge,
so you take this.
If you take it with
food that has--
oh, I don't know--
mold toxins in it,
it binds to the mold
toxins to the point
that in agriculture,
ranchers will say,
oh, I'm going to buy the
food with these field toxins
and storage toxins
that we know is bad,
but we're going to buy charcoal.
We're going to put
it in the food,
so the animals don't get sick.
So I think I'll do
that for myself,
too, because their data
set is very strong.
And there are
studies out there not
of anything that
are manufactured,
just of charcoal
in general, looking
at what it does to
things like cholesterol,
looking at what it does even
for longevity in animal studies.
They're living 15%
longer from having this.
What's going on with
charcoal in general
is that it binds to all kinds
of toxins, including pollutants.
But the most
important thing that's
emerging for the
anti-aging field right now
is something called
lipopolysaccharide.
You have gut bacteria.
All of us have some good
ones and some bad ones,
even if you do everything right.
And the good ones keep
the bad guys in check.
But the bad guys make LPS,
which crosses the gut barrier
and causes inflammation
throughout the body,
including in the brain.
And it's one of the things
that probably triggers
some of the causes of aging.
Charcoal sticks to LPS.
So I think it's a good
idea to take it regularly.
I do.
The problem is
that it's so strong
that if you go to the emergency
room and you've been poisoned,
they're going to pump
charcoal into your stomach.
So charcoal has to be taken
away from any medications
or anything that you don't want
bound up in it, because it's
that powerful.
So I take it on an
empty stomach every day.
[MUSIC PLAYING]